[Music]
all right you're about to learn how to
play chess the complete guide for
beginners who doesn't want to be a cool
intellectual and play chess like a pro
think about it
this game definitely stands out from
everything else and has tons of admirers
all over the world so do you want to
join in and learn the basic rules and
even some winning tricks and techniques
then make yourself comfortable and
listen up as we're about to spill all
the secrets but before we get into all
the details click subscribe and turn on
notifications now you won't miss a thing
okay let's start with a basic
introduction to chess to make it easier
for you to understand the rest or to
simply refresh your memory a chessboard
consists of 64 square spaces there are
files which are the columns going up and
down pointing at you and your opponent
and March from a to H and then there are
ranks the horizontal rows from 1 to 8
each of the 64 spaces is identified by
the combination of a letter of the file
and a number of the rank the player with
the white pieces goes first
each chess piece has a name and specific
move capabilities don't forget to
position the board correctly before
playing each player should have a dark
square in their lower left corner now
the first piece we're going to discuss
is the rook it's placed at the corners
of the board which are a1 and h1 for one
player and a8 and h8 for the other the
best thing about rooks is that they can
move any number of vacant squares both
vertically and horizontally
if your opponent's piece blocks either
of your paths move the rook to the
occupied square and there you go another
player's piece will be long
but remember one important thing rooks
can't jump over pieces that's checkers
if one of your pieces is between your
rook and your opponent's piece this move
is not going to work next we'll take a
closer look at the horse or night
Knights are placed on squares b1 and g1
for one player and b8 and g8 for the
other unlike rooks Knights can jump over
other pieces and they're actually the
only piece that can do that they move in
an l-shape pattern two squares
horizontally and one vertically or one
horizontally and two vertically keep in
mind that Knights can capture a piece
only when they land on that piece of
square
[Music]
next up we have the bishops in square C
1 and F 1 or C 8 and f8 bishops can move
over any number of free squares in a
diagonal direction just like rooks they
can capture an opponent's piece standing
in their way by stopping on that piece
of square but step aside everyone it's
time for the king and queen to enter the
game welcome your Royal Highnesses you
only get one Queen d1 for a white queen
or d8 for a black queen and she's the
most important piece on the board
basically the rook and Bishop combined
she can literally do whatever she wants
moving any number of vacant squares
horizontally vertically or diagonally
she captures pieces on her way by moving
to their squares the Kings place is one
of the two last empty squares II won and
e8 the King isn't as powerful as the
Queen and can only move one square at a
time horizontally vertically or
diagonally he can attack any piece
except for the other king and queen and
that's because he can't move close
enough to initiate a capture but don't
underestimate him the King is
unbelievably valuable if you lose him
you lose the game
so try to protect him at all costs
finally we have a whole row of pawns to
shield your other pieces they take the
Rose from a1 to h1 for one player and
from a7 to h7 for the other pawns move
one square forward with one exception
the first time they move pawns can go
forward either one or two squares but no
more of that after the first move only
one square at a time for the rest of the
game
now there's one downside to pawns if
your opponent's piece is directly in
front of your pawn you can't move it
forward or capture the piece talk about
inconvenience right the only way for the
pawn to capture the piece is when that
piece is placed one square forward and
another one to the left or right of the
pawn itself and there we have all the
chess pieces okay
so to win and become a true chess
champion your task is to checkmate your
opponent's king it may sound like a
piece of cake but it's way more
complicated than you might think
checkmate basically means putting the
King in a position where he'll be
captured because he can't move or be
protected by any other piece the more of
your opponent's pieces you capture the
easier it'll be to checkmate just don't
focus all your energy on this your own
king should be properly protected at all
times so that your opponent can't get to
him before you checkmate your opponent
you can just check them this means that
you should have one of your pieces
within capturing range of your rivals
King in this situation you must say
check out loud to let your opponent
avoid checkmate by moving their King to
any free square blocking the check by
placing one of their pieces in front of
the King to protect him or capturing
your piece that has placed their king in
check the same applies to you as well if
you're in danger of a check you have the
same three options to escape it to avoid
a check yourself think carefully before
making any move that might expose your
King to capture
one rule applies here do not move your
King onto a square that your opponent's
piece might move to on their next move
[Music]
but enough with all the theory
let's talk strategies even though the
game ends with checkmate each of the
pieces has its own relative offensive
strength value for pawns it's one point
a knight's value is three points three
and a half points for a bishop five
points for a rook and nine points for a
queen this is really helpful when
comparing the total points value of each
player to see who has the current
advantage the most important thing to
know is the strong points of any piece
pawns for example are stronger when
they're together in Chains to protect
one another try to keep them that way
unless you see an amazing opportunity to
break the chain and make a great
strategic move Knights are weak and
useless if you keep them near the edge
of the board Knights can control up to
eight squares but when you put them near
the edge this number gets cut in half
use their abilities to your advantage
instead of limiting them bishops
are at their strongest when they're on
or near long diagonals they can control
more squares rooks have the most power
in open files try to position your rooks
on files that don't contain any of your
pawns rooks can also be quite helpful on
the seventh rank for white and the
second rank for black but only if your
opponent's king is on the starting rank
but what about the Queen's they are
dripping with power on any square right
well the center of the board is actually
the best place for them strategically
but the worst in terms of all the danger
they're exposed to successful chess
players suggest keeping the Queen one
move away from the center and trying not
to block her movement with any of your
own pieces for the Kings there's only
one strict rule do anything you can to
make sure that your opponent doesn't get
to him if you want to make your own
rules on the chessboard and be the main
force of the game try to control the
center of the board your opening can
help you do that a D or E pawn is a
great way to start and open the center
of the board the best follow ups after a
couple of pawn moves are knights and
bishops to clean the center use your
pawns while attacking your opponent with
all the other pieces your opponent will
then have to stay on the side with the
limited options to choose from change
things up and use all of your pieces
except for the King of course if you
leave something out you waste that
pieces potential and abilities but don't
just do something on the spur of the
moment chess is a very strategic game
and you have to think several moves
ahead and not just move pieces
cluelessly at the same time you have to
watch your opponent closely and try to
foresee their strategy and plan way too
many things to do at once but you'll
definitely love it in addition don't
give up your pieces without a fight take
your time and scan the board carefully
to see all your options and possible
moves don't rush take it slow and make
sure you don't miss anything let's open
this part with the pawns on passant move
as you might have already guessed it's
French and stands for in passing on
passant is a special capture move that a
pawn can make if you're playing with
white your pawn must be on the fifth
rank for it and it's the fourth rank for
black for you to capture on posad your
opponent's pawn must move two squares
forward and land next to your pawn this
is the beginning of the game move as
this has to be upon that hasn't moved
before as pawns can only move two
squares on their first move so if that
happens you can move your pawn forward
diagonally to the side where your
opponent's pawn is and make the capture
as you pass
but it has to be done immediately or you
lose your chance there's one more pawn
move called pawn promotion no he doesn't
get a race if a pawn reaches the far
side of the board which is the eighth
rank for white and the first rank for
black it must immediately be promoted to
any other piece except for the king the
best way to go is to promote your pawn
to the Queen but one more look bishop or
Knight won't hurt either finally there's
a very useful castling move to protect
the King it's used to get the King out
of the middle of its rank where he's
exposed to the most danger to make the
Castellon move move your king two
squares toward any rook and then hop
that rook over the King so it lands on
the square next to the King remember
that there can't be any pieces between
the rook and the King also the King
shouldn't be in check and both the king
and rook have to be pieces that haven't
made a single move in the game yet if
all these rules apply
you can confidently go for the castling
move so have you decided to learn how to
play chess
what attracts you most in this game tell
us your thoughts in the comments below
and don't forget to give us a like and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life your move
[Music]